---
title: 'Copy Paste? No Need!'
description: 'Using Astro SSG'
myname: 'Eugene Myong'
pubDate: 'Nov 17 2025'
heroImage: '../../assets/blog-placeholder-1.jpg'
---

Imagine having to copy paste html every time you wanted to make a new page using the same format. Such a hassle, and it's very easy to mess up one small thing that can throw off the whole page. Well, now you don't have to do that! Here something called...

### Static Site Generators

A static site generator is a tool that can automatically generate pages based on predefined layouts and inputs. You can use these to very quickly and easily create many pages that follow the same format, for example, a blog or a product page. 

This site is using an ssg called [Astro](https://astro.build/), and the Blog Template. Here's how it works:

- Components: A component is a block of HTML that can be used over and over again. These will often be parts of a webpage that is shared between all pages, like a navbar or title format. You'll often see javascript here to make things easier, and pull things from consts. More on that below.
- Layout: A layout is exactly that: a layout of a page that is to be generated. Uses global variables, components, and Astro.props to define the structure of the page, and replaces the variables/specifics with the appropriate things when creating a new page.
- Assets: Things like images that can be used in components.
- Pages: NOT the pages that are generated by the SSG, but rather special pages like a homepage or about page.
- Content\blog: The pages that are generated by the SSG, following the format of Layout and using Components and Assets. 
- Consts: A file of constants, things that are defined once and never changed but can be used anywhere. Saves a bunch of typing.
- Styles: CSS style file
- And a bunch more, for the full rundown check [here](https://docs.astro.build/en/basics/project-structure/).

What's interesting is if you look into the code for this particular page, you'll notice that I while I set the title, description, and name, I didn't format it as such. In fact, there's nothing that says the title, description, and name should be centered, bold, and bigger! Nor is there anything that says they should be placed in the location they are!

That's because this page is following the BlogPost.astro layout, which defines where the title, description, name, and even image should be located on the page. And that layout file imports BaseHead.astro, which imports styles.css to style the above four things. Pretty complicated huh?

There is a lot of jumping between files and figuring out where things are, but when done correctly, all that spreading out of details is what makes it so easy to make these pages. After all, this page is literally just some parameters at the top (that can be changed between pages) and a bunch of markdown text, and yet on your screen it's formatted and looks good. That's the power of ssgs.

It's even possible to add in your own props. The myname prop wasn't initially in the template, but after doing some fiddling around, I was able to add it in. Just so you don't spend too much time like I did, the secret is to:
1. Add yourField in content.config.ts, following the format of everything else in there (if you want your variable to be optional, then specify it!). 
2. Add it in BaseHead.astro, under interface, with this format: yourField: dataType; Also add it in the const that gets set to Astro.props. 
3. Go into the BlogPost.astro layout file and add yourField to the Astro.props there too. Then, insert yourField anywhere you want int the layout with the format: {yourField}. 
4. Finally, make sure to define it at the top of all your pages that follow the BlogPost.astro layount, and bam, now you have an auto-formatting, changeable field that can be anything you want!

In some pages that don't use the layout, if your variable isn't optional, they may throw an error. In this case, you must define a global variable.

You can add your own global variables by going into consts.ts and defining your own as: export const YOUR_VAR = (your variable here);. Make sure to also import YOUR_VAR at the top of any files that don't use the layout BlogPost.astro, such as index.astro. Also make sure to add this variable to the BaseHead tag, especially if you defined your own field and made it not optional. The name of the field must match!

*Please note I am a student and am still learning, the above may be incorrect (although I hope it's not)*


This [repo](https://github.com/Eugene-Myong/CSE-134B-HMWK-4-PART-5) holds the details of this astro ssg blog site. Have a look!